In this lecture, we are going to add the form for editing a link.
The URL and icon for a social media handle will be modifiable.
Let's get into it in your editor.
Open the edit JS file.
To get started.
Let's import some components from the components package.
Grab two components called text control and button.
The button component is new to us.
This component will render a button with the same styles as the buttons in the Gutenberg Editor.
We are going to add a button for removing a link.
This component will help us add an option for removing the link.
These components are all we'll need.
Scroll to the div tag with the class called team member social edit container.
Inside this element.
Let's add the text control component for changing the URL.
The label property will be a translatable value with the following text your URL.
Next set the value property to the following value.
Social Handles Active social link dot url.
We're selecting a specific item from the array using the active social link state.
This variable contains the index of the active link.
By using this state, we can easily access the properties relative to the current link.
Next, let's add the on change event.
Pass in an arrow function that accepts the new value as an argument called URL.
Updating an attribute that stores an array is tricky.
WordPress advises against updating specific items from within an array.
We must completely override the attribute value.
The recommended solution is to create a copy of the array.
The copy of the array can be updated after updating the copy.
The copy can be stored as the attributes value.
Lets copy the item in the array by creating a variable called temporary link.
The value for this variable will be an object with the social handles active social link object merged
into the current object.
Next, let's make a copy of the entire array.
Define a variable called temporary social.
The value for this variable will be the social handles array spread into an array.
Next we can update the URL by setting the temporary link dot URL property to the URL argument.
Afterward, we can update the temporary social active social link item with the temporary link object.
Lastly, let's call the set attributes function.
The social handles attribute will be set to the temporary variable.
The field for modifying the URL is ready.
Let's make a copy of this component for the icon.
Next, let's change the label to icon.
The value attribute will point to the icon property within the object.
Lastly, the on change event will modify the icon property instead of the URL.
We're almost finished.
The next step is to add the button for deleting the link from the team members card below the controls.
Add the button components.
The button component is a convenient component for adding a button to a block that matches the styles
from the Gutenberg Editor.
We can change the color of the button by applying properties to the button.
In this example, the button will delete a link which can be considered a dangerous action.
Let's use the is destructive button to highlight this action.
The is destructive property will change the colour of the button to read in WordPress is opinion read
is associated with the action of deletion or destruction.
I think it's appropriate for our block inside the components tags.
Add the following translatable text remove.
Next, add the on click event.
If the button is clicked, we can begin deleting a link pass in an arrow function to handle this logic.
Inside the function, we are going to create a copy of the array for the same reason as before.
WordPress does not allow an attribute to be partially updated.
The attributes value must be completely overridden.
Therefore, let's create a copy by creating a variable called temporary copy.
The value for this variable will be an array with the social handles attribute spread into it.
Next, let's call the splice function on this array.
I'm introducing a new function called Splice.
The splice function is available on all arrays.
It'll delete an item from the array.
There are two arguments which are the starting index and the number of items to delete from that index.
Let's pass send the active social link state.
Conveniently, this state variable contains the index of the current item.
As for the second argument, let's pass in one.
We are instructing JavaScript to delete a single item from the array.
The deletion will occur at the index specified in the first argument.
The splice function directly modifies the array it's been called on.
Let's call the set attributes function to modify the social handles attribute to the temporary copy
variable.
Next, let's update the active social link state.
The link will disappear from the block.
Therefore, the link should not be active.
Let's call the set active social link function to set the state to null.
After making those changes, we can start testing our block in the browser.
Refresh the experimental page.
Next, add the team members group block to the page.
We can freely modify the links for each team member.
This includes the icons.
Changing the icons can be tricky.
The icons name must match the name from the bootstrap icon set.
Refer to the documentation for a complete list of social media icons.
Let's try removing a social media link by pressing the remove button.
The form should disappear after clicking this button.
The relative social media link has disappeared too.
This is the exact behavior we were looking for.
Great.
We've successfully added support for social media links.
The last set of lectures will focus on saving the block.
I'll see you there.